.TH BINDFINDER 1 "March 2026" "bindfinder 0.1.18" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bindfinder \- terminal-first command reference browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bindfinder
[\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bindfinder
is a terminal-first command reference browser for SSH, tmux, and shell-heavy workflows.
Run it with no subcommand to open the TUI.

The TUI starts in search mode so you can type immediately.
Press Esc to enter normal mode for vim-style actions, and / to return to search mode.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B config
Open the runtime config in the preferred editor.
.TP
.B config init
Write the default YAML config to the standard config path.
.TP
.B install auto|tmux|bash|zsh|fish|man
Print an integration snippet or install artifact for the given target.
Use
.B --write
to write it to the default target path.
.TP
.B doctor
Detect the current environment and show the recommended integration.
.TP
.B search \fIQUERY\fR...
Search loaded entries from the command line.
.TP
.B list tools|config|sources
List discovered tools or important paths.
.TP
.B validate \fIPACK_PATH\fR
Validate a YAML pack file.
.TP
.B navi featured|list|import
Browse and import navi-style cheat repositories.
.SH TUI FLOW
.TP
.B Search mode
Type immediately to filter.
Use Up and Down to move through matches.
Press Enter to select the current result.
Press Esc to enter normal mode.
.TP
.B Normal mode
Use j and k to move, Ctrl-d and Ctrl-u to page, gg to go to the top, G to go to the bottom, and / to return to search mode.

Additional actions:
z toggles hidden visibility
m toggles favorites-only view
f favorites the selected entry
x hides the selected entry
F favorites the selected tool
X hides the selected tool
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/bindfinder/config.yaml
Default runtime config file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/bindfinder/packs
Default local pack directory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/bindfinder/repos
Default imported navi repository cache.
.TP
.I ~/.config/bindfinder/state.yaml
Persistent favorites and hidden state.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/bindfinder/tmux-capture.log
tmux debug log when tmux debug is enabled.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
bindfinder
bindfinder config
bindfinder doctor
bindfinder install auto --write
bindfinder install man --write
bindfinder search tmux split pane
bindfinder navi import denisidoro/cheats
.fi
.SH NOTES
With shell or tmux integration, the selected command can be inserted into the active command line instead of only being printed.

Cargo installs the
.B bindfinder
binary, but it does not install man pages automatically.
Use
.B bindfinder install man --write
to install the shipped man page under
.I ~/.local/share/man/man1/bindfinder.1 .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1),
.BR bash (1),
.BR zsh (1),
.BR fish (1)
